CTOR-920 : Refresh network-switchs-arista-snmp (#3598)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/network-switchs-arista-snmp.md

id: network-switchs-arista-snmp
title: Arista Switch
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Pack assets

### Templates

The Monitoring Connector **Arista Switch** brings a host template:

* **Net-Arista-SNMP-custom**

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Net-Arista-SNMP-custom" label="Net-Arista-SNMP-custom">

| Service Alias | Service Template               | Service Description                                                                                                                                  |
|:--------------|:-------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Cpu           | Net-Arista-Cpu-SNMP-custom     | Check the rate of utilization of CPU for the equipment. This check can give the average CPU utilization rate and the rate per CPU for multi-core CPU |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Cpu           | Net-Arista-Cpu-SNMP-custom     | Check the rate of utilization of the CPU for the resource. This check can give the average CPU utilization rate and the rate per CPU for multi-core CPU |
```

> | Memory        | Net-Arista-Memory-SNMP-custom  | Check the rate of the utilization of memory                                                                                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Memory        | Net-Arista-Memory-SNMP-custom  | Check the rate of the utilization of the memory                                                                                                          |
```

| Sensors       | Net-Arista-Sensors-SNMP-custom | Check sensors                                                                                                                                        |

> The services listed above are created automatically when the **Net-Arista-SNMP-custom** host template is used.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Not attached to a host template" label="Not attached to a host template">

| Service Alias              | Service Template                                  | Service Description                                                                          |
|:---------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Packet-Errors-Generic-Id   | Net-Arista-Packet-Errors-Generic-Id-SNMP-custom   | Check packets on errors/discards of a network interface                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Packet-Errors-Generic-Id   | Net-Arista-Packet-Errors-Generic-Id-SNMP-custom   | Check packets in error/discarded from a network interface                                      |
```

> | Packet-Errors-Generic-Name | Net-Arista-Packet-Errors-Generic-Name-SNMP-custom | Check packets on errors/discards of a network interface                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Packet-Errors-Generic-Name | Net-Arista-Packet-Errors-Generic-Name-SNMP-custom | Check packets in error/discarded from a network interface                                     |
```

> | Packet-Errors-Global       | Net-Arista-Packet-Errors-Global-SNMP-custom       | Check packets on errors/discards of multiple network interfaces                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Packet-Errors-Global       | Net-Arista-Packet-Errors-Global-SNMP-custom       | Check packets in error/discarded from multiple network interfaces                              |
```

> | Tcpcon-Generic             | Net-Arista-Tcpcon-Generic-SNMP-custom             | Check current tcp connections                                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Tcpcon-Generic             | Net-Arista-Tcpcon-Generic-SNMP-custom             | Check current TCP connections                                                                |
```

> | Traffic-Generic-Id         | Net-Arista-Traffic-Generic-Id-SNMP-custom         | Check the bandwidth of the interface. For each checks the name of the interface will appear  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Traffic-Generic-Id         | Net-Arista-Traffic-Generic-Id-SNMP-custom         | Check the bandwidth of the interface. For each check the name of the interface will appear  |
```

> | Traffic-Generic-Name       | Net-Arista-Traffic-Generic-Name-SNMP-custom       | Check the bandwidth of the interface. For each checks the name of the interface will appear  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Traffic-Generic-Name       | Net-Arista-Traffic-Generic-Name-SNMP-custom       | Check the bandwidth of the interface. For each check the name of the interface will appear  |
```

> | Traffic-Global             | Net-Arista-Traffic-Global-SNMP-custom             | Check the bandwidth of interfaces. For each checks the name of the interface will appear     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Traffic-Global             | Net-Arista-Traffic-Global-SNMP-custom             | Check the bandwidth of interfaces. For each check the name of the interface will appear     |
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

3. [Deploy the configuration](/docs/monitoring/monitoring-servers/deploying-a-configuration). The service appears in the list of services, and on the **Resources Status** page. The command that is sent by the connector is displayed in the details panel of the service: it shows the values of the macros.

## How to check in the CLI that the configuration is OK and what are the main options for?

Once the plugin is installed, log into your Centreon poller's CLI using the
**centreon-engine** user account (`su - centreon-engine`). Test that the connector 
is able to monitor a resource using a command like this one (replace the sample values by yours):

```bash
/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_arista.pl \
	--plugin=network::arista::snmp::plugin \
	--mode=interfaces \
	--hostname=10.0.0.1 \
	--snmp-version='2c' \
	--snmp-community='my-snmp-community'  \
	--interface='.*' \
	--name \
	--add-status \
	--add-traffic \
	--critical-status='' \
	--warning-in-traffic='80' \
	--critical-in-traffic='90' \
	--warning-out-traffic='80' \
	--critical-out-traffic='90' \
	--verbose
```

The expected command output is shown below:

```bash

> OK: All interfaces are ok | *interface_name*#interface.traffic.in.bitspersecond'=4212b/s;;;;' *interface_name*#interface.traffic.out.bitspersecond'=1242b/s;;;;

Author: ```suggestion
OK: All interfaces are ok | *interface_name*#interface.traffic.in.bitspersecond'=4212b/s;80;90;;' *interface_name*#interface.traffic.out.bitspersecond'=1242b/s;80;90;;
```
